[MUSIC]
>> Kyle Simpson: There are other
places where the size parameter
lists where this gather and
spread can be used.
So, another place is within
the context of a reals.
So, let's say I have x = (1,2,3) and
y =( 4,5) and what I'd like is to
define a z which includes
the content Includes a value,
plus the contents of x, plus
the contents of y, plus another value.
So I would do that by saying array
of 0.concat, and I'd say xy.
And then, another array with some other
value like the value 6, for example.
Anybody ever used to array concat before?
So, now z would have 0,
1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 on it.
So, any place where I find myself using
the .apply and the .slice those are places
where the dot, dot, dot helps but also
places where I see myself doing .concat.
That's another one of those smells like,
maybe this is a place where dot, dot,
dot can help me.
So, this is the imperative form of doing
that, the declarative form we start
out again with the same array
of var y = (4,5), and we have
var z is equal to, and now we just
make an array with the value in it.
We spread out x, we spread out y and
we add another value into it.
So, arrays can be spread out in
function calls like we did before where
we were passing a value along to bar.
They can also be spread out
inside of array literal.
So, we can use them inside of array
literals as well, which is nice.
So, putting those things
together I can have a foo
that, included this if I wanted
to pass those all along.
I could put those all together and
then dot, dot, dot.
So, I could make an array that are then
spread back out or I don't even need to do
that because those can all just be
passed individual, all the same thing.
>> Kyle Simpson: So,
re gathering and array.
Spreading can be really useful for us, and
depending on how you do this you
can place interesting tricks which
I'm setting you up now for
the exercise that we're about to do.
You can play some interesting tricks
where for example, let's say.
>> Kyle Simpson: What I've done there is
effectively throw away the first two from
a, so it's kind of declaratively slicing
off the first two from a leaving
the remainder of a, and the remainder of b
but all gathered together into a single.
So, we can use different kind of tricks to
do the declarative form of doing all that
imperative slicing and concatenating and
all the other stuff that we might do.
>> Speaker 2: There's a couple questions
you should probably read them yourself.
VJR is asking about the gather
spread operator performance.
>> Kyle Simpson: To answer
a question about performance.
This is gonna be super annoying to
some of you probably but I'm gonna
tell you that most of your intuition
about how you ask about performance,
you're asking an invalid question,
because the premise of most of
those questions including this one,
the underlying premise is Is it faster or
slower than not doing it at all.
And that's not an apples
to apples comparison.
What we really need to do
is an apples to oranges.
That's an apples to oranges, what we
really need to do is an apples to apples
comparison, which is to ask is it
faster or slower for this dot, dot,
dot thing to be used compared to all the
slicing and can catthing that I might do.
That's the real question
that we might ask.
Now, the answer to that question is it
doesn't matter whether it's faster or not.
What matters is that this is a form that
that the compiler can recognize because
it's a declarative form, which means
that the engines have the opportunity
to optimize it, or they don't have the
opportunity to optimize the other form.
That's the thing that matters.
That's yet another benefit
of using a declarative form,
the compiler has the ability
to see in the future.
I don't know whether they do, but
I don't care, because I'm not
an engine internals person.
But what I do know is that the engine
has the ability to recognize that
syntactically and say, I know what they're
doing they're putting some stuff together
and put in a super hyper optimized
instruction to make that happen.
They cannot do the same over here.
The engine can't see what you're
trying to do there upfront and
make a super hyper optimized form of it.
It might sound like I'm dodging
the question, but what I'm really trying
to get people to realize is that the value
of the VA 6 is not about whether it is or
is not more performing.
In general in the long term, every
declarative form will be at least as fast
as the old version and probably much
faster but whether it is today or
not slightly slower or slightly faster
is an unquestioned benefit in terms
of code readability and that's where
I think our focus should stay.
Does that make sense?
>> Speaker 3: Question
about how this works.
What you have on the right side up there,
so I think what's
gonna happen is x and
y are gonna be the first two elements of
whichever of those arrays a and
b got passed in, correct?
>> Kyle Simpson: If we made an a and
a b, for example,
a =(1,2,3) and b =( 4,5,6),
x is gonna be 1, and y it's gonna be 2.
>> Speaker 3: And if x If array a only
had one element then x would be the one
element and then y would be
the first element to b, okay.
>> Kyle Simpson: Yep, exactly.
>> Speaker 2: So, there was
a response in terms of readability.
>> Kyle Simpson: Somebody trying
to debate me on readability?
>> Speaker 2: Yeah, I think so.
[LAUGH]
>> Kyle Simpson: I don't wanna get into
debates on it.
I'm presenting you all sides and
it's up to you to decide what
do you think about readability.
Yes.
>> Speaker 2: Personal question,
on the notion of the gatherer operator,
what if a was a scalar.
>> Kyle Simpson: Say that again.
>> Speaker 2: What if a was a scalar?
>> Kyle Simpson: You can't use an dot,
dot, dot operator against a value unless,
and here's I'm gonna
tell you something but
I'm not gonna explain it until
the end of the workshop.
The end of the workshop or
in a talk about iterators.
The dot, dot, dot operator spreads
out anything that has an iterator
which is called an iterable.
If a value is iterable it can be dot,
dot, dot spread out.
So, arrays by default are iterables
because they have an iterator
built into them as of ES 6, another thing
that's a default iterable is a string.
If I ask for the individual characters,
if I wanted to get like a real array
of the individual characters of that,
the old school way would have been
to say something like str.split.
And now I get an array out of it but
now we can just treat that string
as an interval because it is and dot,
dot, dot will actually spread it out.
So, if I said something like dot,
dot, dot string now that
value is an array were each element is
one of the characters from the string.
So, any value that has an iterator,
a primitive like the number value
would not have an iterator by default.
But, at the end of today we're
gonna do an exercise where we can
add iterators to our own custom values.